# SB-FSR
The Single Bolus Fractional Synthesis Rate (SB-FSR) R script has been designed for the calculation of broiler chicken individual protein fractional synthesis rates from isotopically labelled proteomics data following a single 2H2O bolus dose.

Two different versions of the script are available, SB-FSR 4t makes use of proteomics data collected at 4 different timepoints (baseline + 3 labelled samples) for the calculation of protein FSR. SB-FSR 5t makes use of proteomics data collected at 5 different timepoints (baseline + 4 labelled samples) for the calculation of protein FSR.

SB-FSR code is divided into three different core modules that can be run independently: A) Proteomics data filtering and FSR calculation; B) Post FSR calculation data filtering and C) MPE and FSR plotting. 

SB-FSR contains explanatory information on the actions that different sections of the script are performing on the data. SB-FSR generates a number of export files which allow easy inspection of the result of some of the code actions (for example, peptides deleted by a certain filtering parameter). The code contains some disabled sections which were investigated at some point during the code development but had marginal impact and were not used in the final version.

SB-FSR requires a number of input files in order to perform protein FSR calculation. These files are:

-The “Amino_acids.txt” file contains the n(AA) values (maximum apparent number of 2H atoms incorporated by each AA) to be used for n(pep) and protein FSR calculation. The version of this file found in this directory contains n(AA) values that have been calculated for their use in broiler chicken deuterium labelling experiments as described in DOI: 10.1002/rcm.9497. 
-The “Study Design.csv” file details the times at which samples used for protein FSR calculation have been collected for each biological replicate (Subject column). The first sample in the sequence (Sequence = 0) corresponds to an unlabelled sample while subsequent sample times are expressed in hours after administration of a single 2H2O bolus.
-The “Gradients.csv” file details the body water 2H enrichment kinetics for each biological replicate.
-The different .csv files named “Experiment_ Treatment_” contain the proteomics data from each biological replicate necessary for protein FSR calculation. These files were generated by the proteomics software Skyline.
-The “QC_filters.txt” file details the thresholds for the different parameters that can be used for filtering proteomics data. 
-The “aa_formulae.txt” file details the chemical formula of each AA, the natural isotopic abundance of each isotope and atomic mass, which are used for the calculation of peptide theoretical natural 2H abundance using the Envipat package.

Examples for the different input files are available in the SB-FSR 4t folder. These files were used for the calculation of broiler chicken individual breast muscle protein FSR as described in ____. Note that not all filtering parameters which can be applied by SB-FSR were applied to this dataset as some of the thresholds for the filtering parameters were set purposely loose.

A user experienced in 2H labelling, protein FSR calculation and R scripting could readily modify the SB-FSR code and its different input files in order to calculate protein FSR from a different single 2H2O bolus experiment performed in a different species or using a different number of sampling timepoints. Inexperienced users are discouraged from performing such modifications.

